# Analysing the weather in Hawaii and creating an API for my holiday (*Challenge 10*)

This repository contains a mini-project in which I analysed the weather data of 9 different stations in Hawaii and created an API that returns JSONs with the results.

## Author

Daniel R. Murillo Antuna: [@dan-murillo](https://github.com/dan-murillo)

## Overview of the Analysis

The mini-project in this repository contains a weather analysis of Hawaii. The analysis was divided into two parts:

- **Part 1**: Python, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, and DateTime were used to do a basic weather analysis and data exploration of a Hawaii weather database in SQLite. A link to the database was established with SQLAlchemy and the tables contained in the database were reflected. A precipitation analysis was conducted to find the most recent date in the database (23/08/2017), the database was queried to get the last 12 months of precipitation data, a Pandas DataFrame with the results of the query was created, the data were plotted, and the summary statistics were generated. A 'station' analysis was also performed to query to total number of stations in the database (9 stations), query the most active stations, query the lowest, highest, and average temperatures of the most active station, and query the last 12 months of temperature observations data —the results of this last query were converted to a Pandas DataFrame and plotted.

- **Part 2**: An app was designed with Flask API, SQLAlchemy, and DateTime. It was based on the queries of Part 1. Three static routes and two dynamic were created:
1. ```/api/v1.0/precipitation``` : this static route leads to the data generated by the precipitation analysis I did of the last 12 months of data.
2. ```/api/v1.0/stations``` : this static route has data about the stations in Hawaii.
3. ```/api/v1.0/tobs``` : this static route takes you to the dates and temperature observations of the most active station for the last year of data.
4. ```/api/v1.0/YOUR-START-DATE/``` : this dynamic route gets you to the minimum, average, and maximum temperature of your start date and all the dates greater than or equal to your start date, if you use the format YYYY-MM-DD in the URL.
5. ```/api/v1.0/YOUR-START-DATE/YOUR-END-DATE```: this dynamic route leads to the minimum, average, and maximum temperature of the period between your start date and end date, if you use the format YYYY-MM-DD in the URL.

All the code in this repository was optimised and thoroughly commented to make it easier to understand and work with.

## Contents of the repository

### The *SurfsUp* folder:

It contains a Jupyter Notebook with the Python code of Part 1 of the analysis, the code of the app (Part 2), and a folder with the database and two CSV file that contain the same data as the database for easy access.

## Data Reference

Menne, M.J., I. Durre, R.S. Vose, B.E. Gleason, and T.G. Houston, 2012: An overview of the Global Historical Climatology Network-Daily Database. Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology, 29, 897-910, [https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/atot/29/7/jtech-d-11-00103_1.xml](https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/atot/29/7/jtech-d-11-00103_1.xml)

```#Thank you for reading me!```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
